=head1 NAME

Frequently Asked Questions about the Perl used in the I<nms> CGI programs.

E<lt>-- $Date: 2004-05-31 12:10:30 $ --E<gt>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are answers to some common questions about our Perl style
and project usage of Perl.


=head2 I've heard that C<use strict;> is gay ..

You shouldn't believe everything that bk tells you :)

C<use strict> (together with C<-w>) is a great way to keep a huge range
of bugs out of your scripts. Even though the I<nms> project team are all
very experienced Perl programmers, we all insist on using them in all of
our scripts. You should too.

=head2 Why don't the programs decode the parameters like other PERL programs?

Actually it's "Perl", not "PERL" :-)

The vast majority of Perl CGI programs seem to decode the CGI parameters
using a buggy piece of code that probably originated in Matt's scripts.
This code has a number of problems so we don't use it.

Fortunately, since Perl 5.004_04, the Perl distribution has included a
library called CGI.pm which will do all your CGI parameter decoding for you.
Why bother writing your own (potentially buggy) code when there's code right
there that will do it for you?

=head2 Why don't you use C<cgi-lib.pl> like everyone else does?

C<cgi-lib.pl> was created for writing CGI programs back in the days of Perl 4,
but we've come a long way since then. CGI.pm does all that C<cgi-lib.pl>
did... and much, much more.

=head2 But isn't the CGI module terribly big and slow?

It's certainly big! But because of the way it's written, only functions that
you actually use will be loaded into memory. This means that it will have 
very little effect on the size or speed of your program.

=head2 What's with all this C<die> stuff all over the programs?

This is another major problem with many other CGI programs. They always 
assume that everything they try to do will work. For example, if they 
open a file to read some data from it, they don't check that the file was
opened successfully. We believe that it's vitally important to check for 
these things and in many cases the only appropriate action when things go
wrong is to kill the program.

=head2 Isn't C<flock> something that sheep do?

Yes, but it's also something that you should do every time that you access
a file that can be accessed by other processes. If you're storing data from
a web page in a file and your web page becomes popular, it is likely that
two visitors can be saving data at the same time. If they both try to write
to the file simultaneously, then the file can become corrupted. If they
both try to flock (for "file lock") first, then only the first one will
be successful. The second will be forced to wait until the first unlocks the
file. This leads to far fewer corrupt files and is therefore a good idea.

=head2 Why don't the programs use C<Net::SMTP> to send mail?

Firstly, because Net::SMTP is not available as part of the core Perl 
distribution except for in the development version leading to Perl 5.8.

Secondly, because the I<nms> developers feel that it is better to use
the queuing, MX lookup and retry capabilities of the local message transfer
agent (MTA) to deliver mail messages - the Net::SMTP module does not do
any of these things and the code to support them is likely to run into
hundreds of lines and require several other modules.  Also Net::SMTP requires
an SMTP relay to be available on the local network.

=head2 Where can I learn more Perl?


If you wish to learn more Perl, you should look at Randall Schwartz's
book Learning Perl, published by O'Reilly and Associates
E<lt>http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/lperl3/E<gt>.

E<lt>http://www.perl.com/E<gt> is also a good starting point.

=head2 The programs keep crashing with C<flock unimplemented>, why?

Hasn't anyone told you that Windows 98 is not a server operating system?

Unfortunately on Windows 95 and 98 there is no support whatsoever for
advisory locking like C<flock>, Perl does not try to emulate it because it
would have to behave completely differently.  You could try commenting out
the lines in the affected programs with a '#', but you should be warned
that this will lead to other side effects as these operating systems
implement a 'mandatory non-blocking lock' on files open for writing: that is
to say that if one process has a file open so it can write to it and a
second process attempts to open the same file (whether for writing or reading
only) then the second attempt will simply fail and there will be an error
message.  This is alright for testing or development purposes where you are
unlikely to have more than one person using the program at the same time, but
would be far from ideal for a public website.


=cut

